docs/backlog.md, before:

## plan_validator.py (logical structure of one plan)

🔍 Your Current validator.py Focuses On:
✅ Tasks, not Plans

It validates:

One task at a time (validate_task())

Or a batch of tasks (validate_task_list())

It checks whether those tasks violate:

Time overlaps

Capacity constraints

Availability rules

And while it aggregates these validations into a world-level summary, it doesn’t yet understand:

🛑 What It Does Not Validate (Yet):
❌ Plan-Level Logic:

Whether a plan’s structure makes sense (e.g., all cycles are covered)

Whether task distribution across occurrences is balanced

Whether the goal-level metadata (e.g., deadline, recurrence) is respected

❌ Goal-Plan Harmony:

Whether the plan truly achieves the user’s goal

Whether it fits within constraints like “2 sessions per week” or “done by end of month”

❌ Cross-Plan Coordination

Whether this new plan overlaps with existing plans

Whether it introduces conflicting obligations across multiple goals


| Validator Layer      | What it does now | What’s missing                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| **Task-level**       | ✅ Covered        | —                                           |
| **Plan-level**       | ❌ Not yet        | Needs goal alignment, occurrence validation |
| **Cross-plan/world** | 🟡 Partially     | Needs goal/task harmonization               |


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






## User Preferences on the go

You're doing exactly the right thing: pausing here is *strategically wise*. You're stepping out of the code and thinking about the **system behavior**, **user experience**, and **long-term data flows** — exactly what a product-first technical architect should do.

Let’s break this into your two questions:

---

## ✅ Q1: How will the system capture user preferences, rules, constraints — naturally and intelligently?

### ✳️ What you're aiming for:

You want your assistant to behave like a **smart, context-aware human** who:

* Understands when the user casually mentions something important
* Remembers it for the future
* Applies it proactively, without being asked again
* Confirms with the user when in doubt

You’re envisioning something like this:

---

### 🧠 Smart Conversational Memory Layer

> **“I don’t want any tasks on Sundays.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “Got it. I’ve marked Sundays as unavailable for you. You can change this anytime.”

---

> **“Make sure to keep at least 30 minutes between my sessions.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “Understood. I’ve added that as a scheduling rule going forward.”

---

> **“Next week I’ll be in Istanbul — block my mornings for family.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “I’ve marked your mornings as unavailable during that trip. Want to tag it as ‘family time’?”

---

### 📦 Where does this live in the architecture?

This is where we put this logic in your Cognitive AI layers:

| UX Moment                             | Module                                 | What happens                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| User says something with a preference | 🧠 **Memory Extraction Node** (future) | The assistant detects “this is a rule/preference” and triggers extraction     |
| Rule is confirmed with user           | 🧠 **Memory Logger**                   | Saved as a `MemoryObject` of type `preference` or `constraint`                |
| Next time a plan is made              | ✅ Memory is queried                    | The preference is injected into the plan generation prompt and/or world model |
| Rules applied automatically           | 🧩 Validator / Calendarizer            | Rules like blackout windows, task spacing, etc. are applied consistently      |

✅ **YES** — this is the right long-term vision and it’s totally compatible with your current design.

We’ll formalize these later using a `UserPreferences` model (or memory type), and eventually build a `preference_extractor()` LangGraph node.

---

## ✅ Q2: Why not treat the world as fully free first, and block it as we go?

> Why not assume the user’s entire calendar is free when they start, and then:
>
> * Add task slots per confirmed plan
> * Use that state going forward
> * Sync it with Google Calendar later?

### 🧠 Great instinct. This is not only reasonable — it's already what your current architecture is doing implicitly.

Let me explain:

---

### ✅ Your current `WorldState` *is* the user’s “dynamic diary”

The `world.all_tasks` list **is your source of truth** for:

* When the user is booked
* Which slots are taken
* What tasks are where

When a new user signs up:

* You create an empty `WorldState` with no `all_tasks`
* The system treats **everything within availability windows** as free
* Then it books time as plans are accepted

So yes — **the logic in `query.py` just reflects this dynamic calendar**. It:

* Checks availability windows
* Compares against currently scheduled tasks (`world.all_tasks`)
* Returns what’s free **right now**, as of this user’s world state

✅ The behavior you described — *“treating the calendar as free until booked”* — is exactly how this system works.

---

### 🔁 Bonus: Google Calendar Integration

You will later create a background sync process that:

* Reads from Google Calendar
* Converts Google Events into `CalendarizedTask` entries in `WorldState`
* Merges them with tasks created by the assistant
* Optionally shows the assistant which blocks are `external`

This will let the system coordinate intelligently across:

* Assistant-generated plans
* User's external obligations

We can even add a `source: "assistant" | "external"` field to `CalendarizedTask` to keep track.

---
## updater.py

def _persist_task_addition(self, task: CalendarizedTask) -> None:
        """Persist new task to database via SQLAlchemy models"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy persistence
        # This would convert CalendarizedTask to appropriate ORM models
        # and save to database
        pass
    
    def _persist_task_removal(self, task_id: str) -> None:
        """Persist task removal to database"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy removal
        pass
    
    def _persist_task_update(self, task: CalendarizedTask) -> None:
        """Persist task update to database"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy update
        pass
    
    def _persist_plan_application(self, tasks: List[CalendarizedTask]) -> None:
        """Persist entire plan to database"""
        # TODO: Implement batch SQLAlchemy persistence
        pass
    
    # === SEMANTIC MEMORY HOOKS (Future: Step 2.5) ===
    
    def _update_semantic_memory(self, task: CalendarizedTask, action: UpdateAction) -> None:
        """Update semantic memory for learning patterns"""
        # TODO: Implement in Step 2.5 when semantic.py is available
        # This would store task patterns, user preferences, scheduling decisions
        pass
    
    def _update_semantic_memory_for_plan(self, tasks: List[CalendarizedTask]) -> None:
        """Update semantic memory for plan-level patterns"""
        # TODO: Implement in Step 2.5
        # This would store plan structures, user planning patterns
        pass


def _invalidate_caches(self, impact: ChangeImpact) -> List[str]


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 💡 Nice-to-Haves for Later


| Feature                     | Suggestion                                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Logging Hooks**           | Add optional `logger` support for traceability.                                                 |
| **Conflict Resolution**     | Return suggested slots if task can’t be added (use `query.py`).                                 |
| **Undo Stack**              | You already have rollback logic — could easily evolve into undo stack.                          |
| **Semantic Memory**         | Consider separate module interface with versioned log of actions.                               |
| **LangGraph Tool Wrappers** | Expose `add_task`, `remove_task`, `apply_plan` as tools. Add metadata to support observability. |


----------------------------------------------------------------------

## Future Enhancements: 7. Goal Outcome tracking - Analytics and insights

-------------------------------------------------------------

## Memory Routing Intelligence:
LM only triggers the chain, doesn't play any role in routing intelligence yet. We plan to use LLMs to play a central role in the routing intelligence in the next version....
#
# 🏁 Checkpoint: Cognitive AI Refactor – August 2025
#

## Current Achievements
- **Memory System**
  - All three memory types (`episodic.py`, `semantic.py`, `procedural.py`) are defined.
  - Memory router exists, but only partially connects all types and is still rule-based.
  - `MemoryContext` class exists, but needs review and refactor for full multi-memory support and node injection.
  - Semantic memory is not yet connected to a vector DB; no embedding/retrieval pipeline is live.
  - Episodic and procedural memory are not yet integrated with updater or LangGraph nodes.

- **World Model**
  - `state.py`, `updater.py`, `validator.py`, `query.py` are implemented and robust.
  - In-memory and schema-based world state, capacity, and availability logic are functional.
  - Validator supports task-level and some plan-level checks.

- **Planning & Contracts**
  - Core contract models (`GoalSpec`, `PlanOutline`, `OccurrenceTasks`, etc.) are established.
  - Only skeletons for task generation and outline nodes exist; no full node system.

- **Graph/Node System**
  - No new LangGraph nodes exist for any cognitive AI step (strategy, outline, tasks, calendar, validation, etc.).
  - No node logic is wired into a new graph; no graph setup or tool registration.
  - No memory or world state injection into nodes.
  - All graph code in `agent/` is legacy, monolithic, and not aligned with the new vision.

- **Other Layers**
  - **Dialogue:** No user feedback, clarification, or chat context nodes.
  - **Learning:** No learning loop; semantic memory not updated from outcomes.
  - **Reasoning:** No prioritization, plan comparison, or goal tradeoff logic.
  - **Execution:** No reminders, calendar sync, or external API integration.
  - **Observability:** Logging and undo/redo exist in some modules, but not consistently or at the agent/tool interface.

---


## Next Steps (Prioritized)
1. **Add Intent Recognition Node (Entry Point)**
    - Implement an intent recognition node as the first step in the LangGraph workflow.
    - Dynamically analyzes every user input to determine intent (e.g., create plan, update task, feedback, etc.).
    - Routes to the appropriate workflow/chain of nodes, enabling non-linear, conversational, context-aware interaction.
2. **Review and Refactor `MemoryContext`**
    - Audit and update to support all memory types and node injection.
3. **Integrate All Memory Types with Router and Node Injection**
    - Refactor router for episodic, semantic, and procedural memory.
    - Ensure all types are available to nodes via `MemoryContext`.
4. **Design and Implement New LangGraph Node System**
    - Create `nodes/` folder.
    - Implement nodes for: strategy interpretation, plan outline, task generation, world model integration, calendarization, validation, user confirmation, persistence.
    - Each node should have a clear contract and be testable in isolation.
5. **Inject `MemoryContext` into Every Node**
    - Systematically inject and utilize `MemoryContext` in all nodes.
6. **Wire World Model into Graph Nodes**
    - Ensure all relevant nodes receive and update world state as needed.
7. **Implement LLM-Based Intelligent Memory Routing**
    - Replace rule-based routing with LLM-powered context analysis for memory selection.
8. **Integrate Semantic Memory with Vector DB**
    - Complete vector DB setup and connect semantic memory to router and nodes.
9. **Implement Learning and Feedback Loop**
    - Update semantic memory with outcomes and use learned patterns for future planning.
10. **Add Dialogue and User Feedback Nodes**
    - Implement nodes for user clarification, feedback, and corrections.
11. **Implement Reasoning and Prioritization Logic**
     - Add logic for prioritization, plan comparison, and goal tradeoffs.
12. **Observability, Logging, and Undo/Redo**
     - Add structured logging and undo/redo to all nodes and tools.
13. **Remove/Archive/Refactor Legacy Code**
     - Archive or refactor all legacy code in `agent/` and `ai/` folders.
     - Remove or modularize any remaining monolithic planner/task logic.
     - Delete or archive any files not aligned with the new cognitive AI architecture.

---

## Cleanup Plan
- **Legacy Code:** Archive or refactor all code in `agent/` and `ai/` folders that does not fit the new node-based, memory-injected, world-aware architecture.
- **Obsolete Files:** Delete or archive any files not aligned with the new cognitive AI architecture.
- **Documentation:** Update all docs to reflect the new architecture, node system, and memory integration. Clearly mark legacy approaches as deprecated.

---

Current Implementation: Rule-based routing using keyword patterns and context analysis
Future Enhancement: LLM-powered semantic routing with learning capabilities

TODO for next version:
- Integrate LLM for semantic content understanding
- Add learning from routing success/failure patterns  
- Implement contextual embeddings for better routing decisions
- Add user preference learning for personalized routing

## AI Learning

CURRENT LIMITATION: Data collection without active learning loop
- Memories are stored but not yet injected into AI prompts
- Pattern analysis exists but isn't used for decision improvement
- This is the foundation layer for future learning integration

NEXT VERSION: Active Learning Integration
- Memory context injection into LangGraph agent prompts
- Preference-based decision enhancement
- Feedback loop for continuous AI improvement
- Pattern-driven scheduling optimization
------------------------------------------------------------

# ============================================================
# ⚠️ INTELLIGENT DESIGN MANDATE — NO RULE-BASED FALLBACKS ⚠️
#
# 🧠 This system MUST default to LLM-powered, adaptive, non-rigid design.
# 🧠 NO hardcoded, rule-based, if/else logic should be introduced unless explicitly authorized.
# 🧠 All decisions — memory routing, validation, prioritization, correction — must prefer:
#     - Conversational, LLM-interpretable logic
#     - Context-aware reasoning using memory and world state
#     - Prompt-injected intent classification and decisioning
#
# ❌ NO RIGID RULES
# ✅ YES TO INTELLIGENT, LEARNABLE, LLM-DRIVEN BEHAVIOR
#
# 🛡️ Use this as a gatekeeper principle before committing any design or logic pattern.
# ============================================================

Commit message:

feat: Implement intent recognition and memory management enhancements with self-learning capabilities

docs/backlog.md, after:

## plan_validator.py (logical structure of one plan)

🔍 Your Current validator.py Focuses On:
✅ Tasks, not Plans

It validates:

One task at a time (validate_task())

Or a batch of tasks (validate_task_list())

It checks whether those tasks violate:

Time overlaps

Capacity constraints

Availability rules

And while it aggregates these validations into a world-level summary, it doesn’t yet understand:

🛑 What It Does Not Validate (Yet):
❌ Plan-Level Logic:

Whether a plan’s structure makes sense (e.g., all cycles are covered)

Whether task distribution across occurrences is balanced

Whether the goal-level metadata (e.g., deadline, recurrence) is respected

❌ Goal-Plan Harmony:

Whether the plan truly achieves the user’s goal

Whether it fits within constraints like “2 sessions per week” or “done by end of month”

❌ Cross-Plan Coordination

Whether this new plan overlaps with existing plans

Whether it introduces conflicting obligations across multiple goals


| Validator Layer      | What it does now | What’s missing                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| **Task-level**       | ✅ Covered        | —                                           |
| **Plan-level**       | ❌ Not yet        | Needs goal alignment, occurrence validation |
| **Cross-plan/world** | 🟡 Partially     | Needs goal/task harmonization               |


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






## User Preferences on the go

You're doing exactly the right thing: pausing here is *strategically wise*. You're stepping out of the code and thinking about the **system behavior**, **user experience**, and **long-term data flows** — exactly what a product-first technical architect should do.

Let’s break this into your two questions:

---

## ✅ Q1: How will the system capture user preferences, rules, constraints — naturally and intelligently?

### ✳️ What you're aiming for:

You want your assistant to behave like a **smart, context-aware human** who:

* Understands when the user casually mentions something important
* Remembers it for the future
* Applies it proactively, without being asked again
* Confirms with the user when in doubt

You’re envisioning something like this:

---

### 🧠 Smart Conversational Memory Layer

> **“I don’t want any tasks on Sundays.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “Got it. I’ve marked Sundays as unavailable for you. You can change this anytime.”

---

> **“Make sure to keep at least 30 minutes between my sessions.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “Understood. I’ve added that as a scheduling rule going forward.”

---

> **“Next week I’ll be in Istanbul — block my mornings for family.”**
> → Assistant replies:
> ✅ “I’ve marked your mornings as unavailable during that trip. Want to tag it as ‘family time’?”

---

### 📦 Where does this live in the architecture?

This is where we put this logic in your Cognitive AI layers:

| UX Moment                             | Module                                 | What happens                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| User says something with a preference | 🧠 **Memory Extraction Node** (future) | The assistant detects “this is a rule/preference” and triggers extraction     |
| Rule is confirmed with user           | 🧠 **Memory Logger**                   | Saved as a `MemoryObject` of type `preference` or `constraint`                |
| Next time a plan is made              | ✅ Memory is queried                    | The preference is injected into the plan generation prompt and/or world model |
| Rules applied automatically           | 🧩 Validator / Calendarizer            | Rules like blackout windows, task spacing, etc. are applied consistently      |

✅ **YES** — this is the right long-term vision and it’s totally compatible with your current design.

We’ll formalize these later using a `UserPreferences` model (or memory type), and eventually build a `preference_extractor()` LangGraph node.

---

## ✅ Q2: Why not treat the world as fully free first, and block it as we go?

> Why not assume the user’s entire calendar is free when they start, and then:
>
> * Add task slots per confirmed plan
> * Use that state going forward
> * Sync it with Google Calendar later?

### 🧠 Great instinct. This is not only reasonable — it's already what your current architecture is doing implicitly.

Let me explain:

---

### ✅ Your current `WorldState` *is* the user’s “dynamic diary”

The `world.all_tasks` list **is your source of truth** for:

* When the user is booked
* Which slots are taken
* What tasks are where

When a new user signs up:

* You create an empty `WorldState` with no `all_tasks`
* The system treats **everything within availability windows** as free
* Then it books time as plans are accepted

So yes — **the logic in `query.py` just reflects this dynamic calendar**. It:

* Checks availability windows
* Compares against currently scheduled tasks (`world.all_tasks`)
* Returns what’s free **right now**, as of this user’s world state

✅ The behavior you described — *“treating the calendar as free until booked”* — is exactly how this system works.

---

### 🔁 Bonus: Google Calendar Integration

You will later create a background sync process that:

* Reads from Google Calendar
* Converts Google Events into `CalendarizedTask` entries in `WorldState`
* Merges them with tasks created by the assistant
* Optionally shows the assistant which blocks are `external`

This will let the system coordinate intelligently across:

* Assistant-generated plans
* User's external obligations

We can even add a `source: "assistant" | "external"` field to `CalendarizedTask` to keep track.

---
## updater.py

def _persist_task_addition(self, task: CalendarizedTask) -> None:
        """Persist new task to database via SQLAlchemy models"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy persistence
        # This would convert CalendarizedTask to appropriate ORM models
        # and save to database
        pass
    
    def _persist_task_removal(self, task_id: str) -> None:
        """Persist task removal to database"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy removal
        pass
    
    def _persist_task_update(self, task: CalendarizedTask) -> None:
        """Persist task update to database"""
        # TODO: Implement SQLAlchemy update
        pass
    
    def _persist_plan_application(self, tasks: List[CalendarizedTask]) -> None:
        """Persist entire plan to database"""
        # TODO: Implement batch SQLAlchemy persistence
        pass
    
    # === SEMANTIC MEMORY HOOKS (Future: Step 2.5) ===
    
    def _update_semantic_memory(self, task: CalendarizedTask, action: UpdateAction) -> None:
        """Update semantic memory for learning patterns"""
        # TODO: Implement in Step 2.5 when semantic.py is available
        # This would store task patterns, user preferences, scheduling decisions
        pass
    
    def _update_semantic_memory_for_plan(self, tasks: List[CalendarizedTask]) -> None:
        """Update semantic memory for plan-level patterns"""
        # TODO: Implement in Step 2.5
        # This would store plan structures, user planning patterns
        pass


def _invalidate_caches(self, impact: ChangeImpact) -> List[str]


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 💡 Nice-to-Haves for Later


| Feature                     | Suggestion                                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Logging Hooks**           | Add optional `logger` support for traceability.                                                 |
| **Conflict Resolution**     | Return suggested slots if task can’t be added (use `query.py`).                                 |
| **Undo Stack**              | You already have rollback logic — could easily evolve into undo stack.                          |
| **Semantic Memory**         | Consider separate module interface with versioned log of actions.                               |
| **LangGraph Tool Wrappers** | Expose `add_task`, `remove_task`, `apply_plan` as tools. Add metadata to support observability. |


----------------------------------------------------------------------

## Future Enhancements: 7. Goal Outcome tracking - Analytics and insights

-------------------------------------------------------------

## Memory Routing Intelligence:
LM only triggers the chain, doesn't play any role in routing intelligence yet. We plan to use LLMs to play a central role in the routing intelligence in the next version....
#
# 🏁 Checkpoint: Cognitive AI Refactor – August 2025
#

## Current Achievements
- **Memory System**
  - All three memory types (`episodic.py`, `semantic.py`, `procedural.py`) are defined.
  - Memory router exists, but only partially connects all types and is still rule-based.
  - `MemoryContext` class exists, but needs review and refactor for full multi-memory support and node injection.
  - Semantic memory is not yet connected to a vector DB; no embedding/retrieval pipeline is live.
  - Episodic and procedural memory are not yet integrated with updater or LangGraph nodes.

- **World Model**
  - `state.py`, `updater.py`, `validator.py`, `query.py` are implemented and robust.
  - In-memory and schema-based world state, capacity, and availability logic are functional.
  - Validator supports task-level and some plan-level checks.

- **Planning & Contracts**
  - Core contract models (`GoalSpec`, `PlanOutline`, `OccurrenceTasks`, etc.) are established.
  - Only skeletons for task generation and outline nodes exist; no full node system.

- **Graph/Node System**
  - No new LangGraph nodes exist for any cognitive AI step (strategy, outline, tasks, calendar, validation, etc.).
  - No node logic is wired into a new graph; no graph setup or tool registration.
  - No memory or world state injection into nodes.
  - All graph code in `agent/` is legacy, monolithic, and not aligned with the new vision.

- **Other Layers**
  - **Dialogue:** No user feedback, clarification, or chat context nodes.
  - **Learning:** No learning loop; semantic memory not updated from outcomes.
  - **Reasoning:** No prioritization, plan comparison, or goal tradeoff logic.
  - **Execution:** No reminders, calendar sync, or external API integration.
  - **Observability:** Logging and undo/redo exist in some modules, but not consistently or at the agent/tool interface.

---


## Next Steps (Prioritized)
1. **Add Intent Recognition Node (Entry Point)**
    - Implement an intent recognition node as the first step in the LangGraph workflow.
    - Dynamically analyzes every user input to determine intent (e.g., create plan, update task, feedback, etc.).
    - Routes to the appropriate workflow/chain of nodes, enabling non-linear, conversational, context-aware interaction.
2. **Review and Refactor `MemoryContext`**
    - Audit and update to support all memory types and node injection.
3. **Integrate All Memory Types with Router and Node Injection**
    - Refactor router for episodic, semantic, and procedural memory.
    - Ensure all types are available to nodes via `MemoryContext`.
4. **Design and Implement New LangGraph Node System**
    - Create `nodes/` folder.
    - Implement nodes for: intent recognition, strategy interpretation, plan outline, task generation, world model integration, calendarization, validation, user confirmation, persistence.
    - Each node should have a clear contract and be testable in isolation.
5. **Inject `MemoryContext` into Every Node**
    - Systematically inject and utilize `MemoryContext` in all nodes.
6. **Wire World Model into Graph Nodes**
    - Ensure all relevant nodes receive and update world state as needed.
7. **Implement LLM-Based Intelligent Memory Routing**
    - Replace rule-based routing with LLM-powered context analysis for memory selection.
8. **Integrate Semantic Memory with Vector DB**
    - Complete vector DB setup and connect semantic memory to router and nodes.
9. **Implement Learning and Feedback Loop**
    - Update semantic memory with outcomes and use learned patterns for future planning.
    - Implement a self-learning intent discovery pipeline:
        - Log unknown/novel user intents and ambiguous LLM outputs into semantic memory.
        - Periodically analyze these logs to discover new intent patterns using clustering, LLM-based summarization, or human review.
        - Propose and validate new intents, then update the intent list and LLM prompt.
        - Use outcomes to refine and improve intent recognition and planning.
10. **Add Dialogue and User Feedback Nodes**
    - Implement nodes for user clarification, feedback, and corrections.
    - Add dialogue flows to confirm, refine, or reject new intent proposals with the user, closing the learning loop.
11. **Implement Reasoning and Prioritization Logic**
     - Add logic for prioritization, plan comparison, and goal tradeoffs.
12. **Observability, Logging, and Undo/Redo**
     - Add structured logging and undo/redo to all nodes and tools.
13. **Remove/Archive/Refactor Legacy Code**
     - Archive or refactor all legacy code in `agent/` and `ai/` folders.
     - Remove or modularize any remaining monolithic planner/task logic.
     - Delete or archive any files not aligned with the new cognitive AI architecture.

---

## Cleanup Plan
- **Legacy Code:** Archive or refactor all code in `agent/` and `ai/` folders that does not fit the new node-based, memory-injected, world-aware architecture.
- **Obsolete Files:** Delete or archive any files not aligned with the new cognitive AI architecture.
- **Documentation:** Update all docs to reflect the new architecture, node system, and memory integration. Clearly mark legacy approaches as deprecated.

---

Current Implementation: Rule-based routing using keyword patterns and context analysis
Future Enhancement: LLM-powered semantic routing with learning capabilities

TODO for next version:
- Integrate LLM for semantic content understanding
- Add learning from routing success/failure patterns  
- Implement contextual embeddings for better routing decisions
- Add user preference learning for personalized routing

## AI Learning

CURRENT LIMITATION: Data collection without active learning loop
- Memories are stored but not yet injected into AI prompts
- Pattern analysis exists but isn't used for decision improvement
- This is the foundation layer for future learning integration

NEXT VERSION: Active Learning Integration
- Memory context injection into LangGraph agent prompts
- Preference-based decision enhancement
- Feedback loop for continuous AI improvement
- Pattern-driven scheduling optimization
------------------------------------------------------------

# ============================================================
# ⚠️ INTELLIGENT DESIGN MANDATE — NO RULE-BASED FALLBACKS ⚠️
#
# 🧠 This system MUST default to LLM-powered, adaptive, non-rigid design.
# 🧠 NO hardcoded, rule-based, if/else logic should be introduced unless explicitly authorized.
# 🧠 All decisions — memory routing, validation, prioritization, correction — must prefer:
#     - Conversational, LLM-interpretable logic
#     - Context-aware reasoning using memory and world state
#     - Prompt-injected intent classification and decisioning
#
# ❌ NO RIGID RULES
# ✅ YES TO INTELLIGENT, LEARNABLE, LLM-DRIVEN BEHAVIOR
#
# 🛡️ Use this as a gatekeeper principle before committing any design or logic pattern.
# ============================================================
